From Hansel minutes.com. It's Hanselman.
It's a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
one 46. Recorded live Monday,
January 12th, 2009. Support for Hanselman it's
just provided by Tellerik rad
controls, the most comprehensive suite
of components for windows forms
and asp.net web applications online@wwwdotterikdotcomandby.net
developers journal the world's leading.net
developer magazine online at www
dot  dot com. In
this episode, Scott talks test
driven development with Scott bellwether.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman,
and this is another episode
of Hanselminutes. And in this
episode, we're sitting down with
Scott bellwether, the agile coach
from Austin, Texas, and he
proposed that. We talk about
test driven development, but specifically
he wanted to call this
talk test driven development. The
last word, the Scott has
some really interesting opinions about
how TDD is being perceived
and being preached in the
community. So I thought that'd
be a real fun discussion.
Thanks, Scott, for sitting down
with me today. Yeah, thanks
for having me on. So
the last word, you know,
that that really implies that
test driven development is being
presented in a way that's
not entirely accurate and we
want to kind of slam
the door shut on that
and move forward. So what
is not being presented appropriately
with regards to TDD in
the community today? I think
that it's, it's pretty well
represented fairly accurately. The, the
problem I think comes in
when we leap to the
assumption of testing, every time
that we start talking about
test driven development or, or
these conversations about software testing
or software quality assurance, it's
almost inevitable now that someone
will turn the conversation to
test driven development, like, you
know, well, you know, let's
talk about quality. And then
what, what do you think
about TDD and how does
the supply, and I think
some of the, the little
bit of the shocker for
me, and maybe it's a
shocker, hopefully for the audience,
is that folks who do
test driven development assert and
have asserted for quite a
long time, that TDD is
more about design than, about
testing. And it doesn't, it
there's a little bit of
benefit to come about talking
about TDD when we're talking
about testing. But you know,
only as talking about the
side effects, the quality side
effects of TDD and it's
it's. So I think a
agregious or it's become, so
agregious over the years that,
you know, TDD has even
been somewhat renamed in, in
recent times to from test
driven development, the behavior of
different development, really to draw
a line in the sand
and, and, and say, you
know, this is not about
testing. This is about something
else. We've got this unfortunate
heritage of TDD that has
the word test in the
name, but it's not. And
we should really endeavor, I
think, more of an effort
to, to preserve the value
that the intrinsic value that
TDD offers and TDD has
really given it, the old
college try to say, Hey,
every time I'm talking about
testing and someone, and I'm
feel my mind wanting to
stray to TDD, maybe I
should program myself to throw
an exception or something like
that. Well, I think that
the, the name, the simple
name test driven development describes
the mechanical action of the
style of development. Yes, yes.
One does test yes. An
aspect of the test drive
development, but, but it's, it's,
that's the, that's the physical
aspects of things. And it's
a bit, it's a bit
of a gray area too,
because even if I say
this is about testing, it's
about design rather than testing.
There's always going to be
an aspect of testing in
TDD, Right. But to write
tests and have them drive
the development, isn't necessarily the
purpose, the whole, the whole
reason for existence of this
style of development. I haven't
felt though that behavior driven
development, well, it seems like
it feels, it feels better
to say for me, it
still doesn't quite say it
right. You know how they
always say an object oriented
programming, you need to really
name it before you can
understand it. And I almost
feel like we haven't named
this style of development and
in a way, at least
for me, that resonates. I
think that if you there's
a behavior driven development discussion
group on Google groups, I
don't remember the address right
now, but I'm sure you
can Google Sure. We'll put
it on the show notes.
And that same thing is
reflected in behavior driven development.
I mean, not only did
behavior driven development change the
name in order to try
to resolve this issue about
TDD in testing, but it,
it also is 10 years
later and some of the
practices have been changed and,
and it introduces its own
set of confusion as any
new thing or new practice
does. So it's questionable whether
the name, you know, actually
does anything except change the
name from test driven development.
And I think that there's
great value in that. I
think it's also quite sad
though, that, that, that no
matter how often it was
brought up or how often
it was pointed out, or
even requested folks to really
consider TDD as testing, rather
than I'm sorry, it has
designed rather than testing that
it never really sank in.
And I find this fascinating.
I think that that questions
and conversations about quality are
somehow, sometimes even damaged when
we, when we let them
fall over into, into conversations
about test driven development. If
you look at writing tests
first, as a means to
achieve software quality from the
perspective of a, you know,
a tester's perspective or a
quality assurance perspective, it's going
to seem pretty senseless. It'll,
you know, TDD will we'll
create quality, but not the
kind of quality that, you
know, the word quality applies
in a different way. I
thought it was fascinating listening
to Carl Franklin, his conversation with
dr. Whitaker and there was
a pretty good, it was
a pretty good episode of,
of your brother's show.net and
a, and a, and I
hope a lot of people
get a chance to listen
to, to dr. Whitaker's perspective,
the only, you know, and
I, some of it I
agreed with and some of
it, I thought it was
a little bit safe. I,
and that's kinda, you know,
that's great. At least at
least there was, it was
engaging. And I appreciated that.
But when it got to
the test driven development question,
it was to me internally,
one of those things like,
Hey, why, why is test
driven development coming up in
the conversation about software quality
and software quality tools? And
for me, it's natural to
think that way. And I
think it's natural to think
that way, for many folks
who do test driven development,
but it's really kind of
hurting test driven development and
the value that it brings.
And I think it also
hurts these conversations about quality.
Okay. So let's, let's do,
let's try this thought experiment.
Let's back up and let's
go from the point of
view of someone who works.
Let's use my economical engineer.
This is the guy that
I call the chief architect
at the Nebraska department of
forestry. He's got, you know,
he's got access machines and
he's learning asp.net. And he
maybe started out as a
Phoebe guy, but maybe it
doesn't really have the deep
computer science passion or the
deep software engineering passion that
a lot of people have.
He's just a guy, who's
got a job and he
enjoys it, but he really
wants to be a better,
better person. This is, you
know, 70% of developers out
there. They want to do
better, but they're, they're saddled
by some issues, whether they
be organizational or technical or
whatever, he starts a new
project. And someone says, Hey,
wait a second. You need
to be writing the tests
first. You need to let
the test drive the development.
And then they give him
the elevator speech on test
driven development. And what I'm
hearing you say is that
he's going to immediately say,
Oh, okay, well, this will
mean that I'll have lots
of tests and I can
go to the command line.
I can type bill dot
bat and test bat, and
I'll have more confidence that
my application works. And then
he goes on with his
life. And you're saying that
that is completely missing the
point he's, he's, he's missing
an opportunity here. Well, I
think if he's trying to
get the opportunity that test
driven development brings to the
party, that he's very possibly
missing point of test driven
development, that in the summary
that you just presented, it
didn't really sound like the
case for driven development was
made. No, it doesn't, but
that's very typical. I mean,
I've, I've lived through those
experiences and lots of times
where someone is introduced to
test room development and in
a very basic sense. Well,
if you introduce it, I
mean, even, I mean, I
would expect anybody to Bach.
If I walked up to
them and say, Hey, you
know, this new unit testing
thing, let's do that. It's
really good. And that person
says, yeah, I've heard of
this. That's a great idea.
I've wanted to do this.
And then I say, but
let's start reading our tests
first. There's no real sort
of rationale or logic that
suggests, you know, that leap
from, you know, doing unit
testing to writing tests first.
And part of the reason
for that is your, the
goal here with test driven
development, isn't really a unit
testing goal. Although we're borrowing
unit testing tools to achieve
the goal and thus test
driven development. And frankly there
is testing involved. I mean,
we are using testing, we're
borrowing testing almost like we're,
you know, sort of demonically
possessing unit testing to, to
achieve other meats. You know,
so I don't think I
could sell test driven development
from the perspective of the
value of unit testing. Okay.
So how do we frame
this? So the guy someone's
got some, some foray into
testing, he's done some testing
and some basic stuff, but
it hasn't taken over his
life. It doesn't fundamentally change
the way he designs software.
Well, the first thing I
would want to do to
frame it is, is ask
whoever I'm working with to
just give it a little
bit of effort, that every
time they hear the word
test driven development, and they
automatically react with thinking about
testing and quality assurance that
they just suspend disbelief every
time that moment comes up
and just give it a
moment of pause and consideration,
that goes a long way
to understanding what we're after
or to disentangle testing from
the goals of TDD or
BDD. The next thing is
to talk about what makes
software great and enjoyable to
work with. And the basic
premise is for me that
you can't really use anything
that you don't understand. So
if software is hard to
understand, it's going to be
hard to work with. So
the easier that we can
make software understandable, the better
our experience as developers and
also the higher our productivity
will be. It's interesting that
the qualities that make software
easier to understand are also
the qualities that are highly
desirable from a O O
design fundamentals perspective. So when
you spoke to Bob Martin
about the solid principles in,
at a very, very basic
abstract and essential level, all
of those principles, point to
designs that are easy for
the human mind to get
around, You know, that's funny
that you mentioned that because
I run my, this is
going to be sound random,
but I think it makes
sense. I run very large
fonts. I have a really
big monitor. Everyone's got a
pretty big monitor, a couple
of monitors, but I run
like 16 point font. People
think that's ridiculous when you're
on 16 point font, I
run a 6.5, but I,
I really get uncomfortable if
I can't see the entire
function without scrolling at 16
point font on my monitor,
which basically adds up to
about 25 lines. If it
gets bigger than that, then
my small mind just can't
conceive of what's beyond the
scroll bar. And I find
that it makes what I
do better. And I'm almost
kind of like mechanically forced
myself to, to have smaller
functions just because I can't
possibly suck that much information
in at a time. And
So you're pointing to an
essential quality of code. That's
easy to understand, which is
it's small, right. Or there's
less of it to, there's
less of it to swallow
at one time. Right. And
then if you start there,
consequently, that's easier to, it's
easier to test. And if,
if it's really small, hopefully
it has only one purpose
to live. Yeah. So what
did, what was the print?
The solid principle that's the,
That a classroom method should
have only one reason to
change. Yeah. The single now
all of this jargon, you
know, test driven development is
also part of the jargon.
Testability is one of the
worst bits of jargon. It's
one of the most accurate
bits of jargon we have.
And it's also, I think
one of the most, you
know, destructive bits of jargon
to the cause of software
design, when I say testability,
or when anybody in the,
you know, progressive for lack
of a better word, software
development community uses a word
like testability it's. It means
something inside that community, inside
that culture. And it means
something that is not understood
outside of that culture, every
programmer in the world should,
should reasonably assume that when
I'm talking about testability, I'm
talking about the ability to
test something. So if I
look at some piece of
code, or if I sit
down with, with Joe programmer,
from Nebraska department of forestry
and I look at his
code and I say, Hey,
that code's not testable. And
he says, you're out of
your mind, I'll show you
the tests for this. As
a matter of fact, I've
got high coverage on, on
this code and this code
is tested. So it must
be testable. You know, I've,
I've kind of, sort of
shot myself in the, in
the ideological foot, by this
word testability. Right. And the
assumption that we're the assumption
that we make in the,
you know, in the inner
sanctums of the echo chamber,
is that we're really saying
it's, it's got easy testability.
Right. And I think that
that point that you just
made it kind of deserves
repeating and paraphrasing and pounding
and pounding because I think
that it, it really clarifies
things for me. I think
it really nails the point,
the idea that you did
test something, and it doesn't
mean that it was easily
testable. And I remember when
I talked to a guy
named quetzal Bradley, who's a
tester at Microsoft who made
the comment to me. What
do you think was a
year ago when I talked
to him that just because
you have a hundred percent
code coverage that doesn't tell
you that your code works
necessarily, it just means you
executed every line. It doesn't
say anything at all about
the bad intent. And it's
just, it's these small little
obvious observations that continually blow
my mind when someone says
that, you know, you know,
I had a guy on
my team who was obsessed,
But that should never be
taken to mean by any
of your listeners. That code
coverage is thus irrelevant. I
had a guy on my
team who was obsessed with
getting to a hundred percent
and I thought it was
great. I was like, all
right, well, if he wants
to work that hard and
get to a hundred percent
good for him, but it
made him feel good, but
it was a completely false
sense of security. I think
a hundred percent code coverage
is a pretty good number.
Tell you the truth. I
think it's a really good
number when that number comes
out of a team that's
using a handful of practices
that make that number mean
something that number on its
own only means something when
you're using the kind of
designs that suggests that the
number is meaningful, and this
comes back to design again,
right. If I get a
hundred percent coverage on code
that has what I would
call defect, attractor design, then
you're really not proving that
the code doesn't have defects.
You're, you know, you're just
proving that you've touched every
line, but if you add
a hundred percent coverage on
code, that was well designed.
It actually starts to mean
something more in terms of,
from a defect rate, certain
designs are more prone to
defects. They attract defects than
other kinds of designs and
the smaller and smaller, you
know, and the more cohesive
these units of, of functionality
become, you know, in accordance
to all of these crazy
grandiose terms like testability and
the solid principles and so
forth, the less amenable they
come become to attracting defects.
Hi, this is Scott coming
at you from another place
in time. Are you looking
for an object, relational mapping
tool for mission critical projects
using lincoln.net? I wanted to
share with you genome specifically
designed for developing Dutton and
enterprise applications. Genome is a
mature link, integrated ORM tool.
It's been employed in numerous
large scale projects over the
last six years, genome was
created for the.net platform as
opposed to being a port
from Java. And it's thrived
on platform innovation since.net. 1.0
genome is supported link since
its CTP release in may
of 2006. It offers several
unique features, such as encapsulation
and reuse of LINQ queries
and expressions. You can really
fully harness the power of
link while benefiting from your
database platforms. Unique features, compose
complex link queries, decompose the
query logic and your domain
model link supports all the
major database platforms you find
in enterprise environments like SQL
server, but also Oracle and
IBM DB too. You can
find out more about how
genome integrates tightly with visual
studio and what tools genome
offers to reduce development time@tinyurl.com
slash try genome G N
O M E, where you
can also download a free
and fully functional trial version.
I hope you enjoy it.
Okay. So are there some
things, are there some specific
things to watch for this
defect attractor design? Cause sometimes
when, when, when, when we,
the echo chamber or whoever
talk about these things, it
is very vague and it's
very difficult to take these
generic concepts and apply them
to something really explicitly point
to a line or point
to something. Is it, is
it falling for us to
try to look for something
really, really concrete when we
say, well, all right, well,
I understand what you're saying,
Scott, but let's get specific.
Here's the new, yeah, here's
an example, right? It's it's
interesting. I think that on
your, on your show with
Bob Martin, he gave a
really interesting example of what
I would think of as
a, as a defect attractor
or an, a design with
a, with a, with a
potential for defects, which was
when he talked about the
substitution principle, they'll discuss substitution
principle. And he gave the
example of, you know, a
collection of objects that are,
have a base class of
square. And somebody implements a
rectangle class to be a
subclass of square. And then
at a higher level, there's
another program or writing code
that iterates over a collection
of squares and calls methods
on them. But the rectangle
has different behaviors because it
is, it is not a,
you know, and it's not
a, Yeah, I thought that
was a great, I thought
it was a great example,
but the idea was that
one's, one's observations about kind
of reality don't necessarily always
translate them, get easily modeled
in software. And that was
just a perfect example of
here's something that, you know,
how it works. You've known
since seventh grade, but you
can't model it like this.
I mean, this specific example
he talked about in the
code where he would have
a, you know, a, of,
of, of types whose dynamic
type is a base class,
and then you operate on
them and you should be
able to operate on any
type. But then he said,
well, we have this special
circumstance. And when, when one
of those items, you know,
when we're iterating through, when
the current item is, is
a, is a rectangle, then
there's an if statement there.
And then the, if statement
has to do some special
processing, that special circumstance that
is at that level of
the design is likely a
place that will cause some
sort of defect to happen
somewhere else. And the reason
for that is it's unexpected
that it's there and it's
hidden knowledge. And this goes
back again to knowledge and
learning and design. So all
of these great design qualities
and all that test driven
development does is drive for
the simplest units of understandability
or the simplest units of,
you know, the things that
your brain can dissolve into
itself and turn into knowledge
and learning. And you can
see this very easily in
some of these practices and
test driven development. We're really
trying to drive at the
smallest amount of setup code.
So if you have a
piece of business logic that
has an if statement in
it that on one branch
of the F let's say
creates a new database row,
but on the other branch
of the F updates a
database row, then you might
have to set up that
test, right to, well, you
need a database, you might
need some sample data. If
you're in the update branch
you might need. And then
of course on both cases,
you'll need to, you know,
query that roll out of
the database to see if
it worked well, the presumption
there that you need to
have an actually, you know,
a live database in place
to test the, if statement
that the, if statement worked
based on the, on the,
on the variables that it
was, that it was checking
is the kind of presumption
you get to when you
have large designs, large chunky
designs when you don't have
modules or modularity, Right. And
that's at that point, it
knows too much. You're starting
to bump up against single
responsibility. You're, you're, you're getting
you're stumbling on a design
smell. Sure. But even if
we don't go into those,
that terminology, I could look
at the test code and
see something that is often
referred to as test friction,
which is the amount of
setup code necessary to run.
This specific scenario is more
than we find comfortable because
I have to create database
rows. I have to set
up objects in the database.
I have to set up
a data, access layer, all
this kind of stuff. So
if you look at what
it takes to take any
old object in your system,
instantiate it into memory and
then poke and prod at
it and learn how it
behaves the amount of effort
it takes to set up
that code. That's kind of
the, one of the most
important things that we're driving
at test driven. It's how
much effort do you have
to make before you can
learn what an object does.
Wow. That's a really good
way to put it. How
much effort do you have
to make before you can
learn what an object does?
You know, there was a
couple of years ago, you
and I were having a
kind of a lower case,
a argument discussion about a
word that you used that
I think really means a
lot right now, which was
called solubility, which is how,
how easy, you know, how,
how little friction is there
between the design and getting
it into your brain. Do
you have to chew on
it for a while or
does it just kind of
grok immediately and suck into
your brain and just smoothly
like drinking water? Well, if
you look at designs that
require a lots of setup
to use them. So the
H I said, Hey, like
a Canadian, but I never
say H the HTTP context
object is a sort of
classic, you know, the classic
example of a design of
a manager object, right? The,
the very big chunky multi-role,
it's, it's a, it's a,
it's a Swiss army knife.
It's always there. It's in
the background. You can pluck
it out. It's implicit parameters.
It's just a ever present,
But how can you ever
instantiate one in memory? So
let's say this it's, this
is a great example. If
I had a code behind
page for, for an asp.net
web forms application, and I
wanted to test that my
ideal scenario would be to,
to, to instantiate the code
behind class in memory and,
you know, call a method
on it. And then I
could see the text that
was rendered from, from the
code behind, you know, from
the, from the method that's
really not possible. And it's
really difficult to understand what
a code behind page does
and to learn what it
does. And there's, you know,
articles and articles and books
written on what we think
of as the, what is
the, the pipeline people call
it. Traditionally, I plan on
all the eventing and stuff,
because things are getting called
kind of via magic. It
is, and it's, it's that
black magic. So when we
go back to the scenario
of business logic, that calls
the database where the, if
statement and the first case
in the first branch might
do an update, and the
second branch might do an
insert, or what have you,
if the business logic has,
and a dependency on this
data database module, then that
dependency has to be made
very clear, very obvious, very
transparent. Let's say in that
business logic module, the constructor
instantiates, a database access class,
a Dao object. And if
it does that instantiation and
the object, then you can't
really tell from the outside
of that object that that's
what's going on. Right. So
when start say, I instantiate
that business object class, and
I start poking and prodding
at it to see how
it works. I'll probably get
a no reference exception or
some crazy thing that happens
once the doubt you went
to the code hits the
Dow, right? Yep. That's what
you would think of with
more esoteric terminology is an
opaque dependency. Those things make
it harder and harder and
harder to understand what that
business logic does. Does that
make sense? It doesn't mean
it makes total sense. So
I'm used to things like,
like Kent Beck's term code
smell, you know, we all
like that. That's a great,
it's a great way to
just say, nah, this isn't
right. And I, and I
think that there's tests, there's
definitely tests smells, and you're
describing kind of design patterns
that are really designed anti-patterns
that then spill over into
testing. So you've got, you
know, all sorts of test
anti-patterns or test smells like,
like you just said, a
lot of context, a lot
of implicit context that's coming
in, that's not being passed
in from a parameter. You've
got lots of setup code,
anything that's in a, any
concept, like a session where
you're plucking things out of
some, some holdings, a holding
area outs outside of yourself,
Outside of the concern of
the test. So if we're
talking about this business logic
module, that has an if
statement in it, if the
data access layer, if I
want to control which data
access object goes into the
test, so that I can
verify how it was used,
I could make the data
access object, a Singleton object.
So I would call, you
know, instead of calling new
on the data access object,
I would call get instance,
but I could have a
hook in that class that
says, here's the instance I
want you to give. So
I set up the data
access object with an instance
of the data access object,
so that when it returns,
when the, when some code
in this constructor of the
business logic module, and this
is really, I don't think
coming across in a conversation
as well as it would
on a whiteboard. But if,
you know, if you have
to set up, if you
have a registry of data
access objects that you use,
and you have to set
up that registry, then you're
not actually setting up the
business logic object. And that
is a code smell. If
you're setting up factories and
if you're setting up containers,
and if you're setting up
red, you know, these registries
and session state and all
of this stuff, yeah. You're
starting to bring in concepts
into the setup of a,
of a test. And let's
say, test the set up
of an object that bring
in more concepts, more issues,
more classes, HDB context is,
you know, a classic example
of, if you want it
to use an HTTP context,
then you'd have to set
up a lot of stuff
before you could even test
the thing that you're actually
concerned with, which is the
operation in a code behind
page or code behind class.
So all of these ancillary
concerns that we have to
bring into our test, this
is test friction. This is,
Hey, I want to run.
I would. My ideal scenario
is I want to run
the click method on a
page, and I just want
that to work. I want
the design behind all of
this to be fairly simple
so that I can just
make that happen. So there's
a framework in the Ruby
world called Merv. And when
you test a, when you
test for all intents and
purposes, a web handling method,
you just call it, you
instantiate the controller and call
it. And that method returns
text, and the text is
the webpage, and you can
inspect the webpage. There's nothing
more simple than this. There's
no true deep necessity I'm
oversimplifying, but there's no real
deep necessity to set up
all of this ancillary stuff.
Right? All of the ancillary
things that we have to
set up the objects before
we can get them in
memory, in a good state
so that we can start
to learn from them. That's
what the noise is. That's
what the test friction is.
And any really good programmers
should be able to say,
yeah, but I'm a good
program, right? I don't really,
I'm not really daunted by
that. I'm beyond that. My
skills are such that I
can handle the pain. I
can take the pain, but
the reality is we, we
tend to stop considering the
other people on the team
who are coming into our
code, likely from a cold
start. I've never seen this
code before, or I have
just been away from this
code for a couple of
days or a couple of
hours, or, you know, you
know, whatever that time span
is that that reflects how
quickly my memory. Yep. And
then, and then you get
yourself into a situation where
you're, you're working on it
on a design. And I
always call this a right
only design. You can slap
the keyboard all you want,
but no one's gonna come
in and ever read this
and figure it out. It
is right only With, with
seeing, with sort of judging
whether or not the thing
that you did just did
is good, is that you're
judging it from having, you
know, your brain is already
warmed up to it. You
don't see how difficult it
is to come at it
from a, from a cold
start because you yourself are
not in a cold start
position, right? This is the
problem of creating usability or
user experience. When we create
a user interface, most of
the people who create user
interfaces that end up being
user interfaces that are thought
of as poor user experiences,
aren't really sitting down to
say, Hey, this is a
poor user experience. They really
kind of look at it
and say, Hey, this works,
this is good. I think
this is good. I'm going
to go with this. The
reason for that is they're
already warm. Yeah. That makes,
that makes total sense. They're
warm. They have already positive
attitudes towards the thing they
hear. There's pride, there's ego
involved. So knowing That that
happens and it happens to
every developer, not just, you
know, I mean the best
developers are some of the
worst user experience people because
they have such a powerful
facility of memory that they
keep this mental map of
the system in their mind.
Right. And they say, well,
I know where all this
is. I don't really need
to create smaller objects just
to help create mnemonics. And
the reality of the scenario
is that's the minority of
developers, right? That's the hero
developer, the developer with the
photographic memory, the reality of
the world, the rest of
the world is most developers
benefit from dealing with objects
and systems of objects that
are much smaller. And when
they get smaller and when
we apply some of these
well, let's, let's not even
talk about applying design principles,
if they're smaller and you
can set them up in
a few lines of code.
So write down some example
code and set them up
and poke at them and
see what they do. Well,
you've got, you've got software,
that's learnable. And like I
said, coincidentally, that software probably
expresses the quality of testability
that people talk about and
then develop a testing community.
And it also will more
than likely express many of
the solid principles. And if
you just make the effort
of writing down some sample
code saying, here's how simple
I want setting up this
object to be. I don't
want it to be any
more complicated than this. If
you make that effort, then
the resulting implementation of that
example that you just wrote
of the, of the level
of simplicity that you want,
the implementation will more than
likely necessarily reflect solid principles.
And I can say categorically
that most of the people
that I know that I
learned or that I came
up with in, Oh, and
TDD, didn't really start from
the perspective of, Hey, here
are these, here's this great
acronym from Bob Martin. And
here are these, these definitions
of object oriented design principles
that we found on Wikipedia.
You know, we kind of
backed into those things, really
backed into them, like kind
of backing up kind of
like one of those cliches
Scooby doo scenes, where, you
know, Fred's backing up and,
you know, Scooby's backing up
and they bump into each
other. And they surprised like
we backed into all of
these design principles and said,
wow, look, look at this
code that we're creating. It
actually reflects these things that
other people said are really
good and desirable. And from
the perspective of looking at
the code we created, we
really began to get a
good understanding of what these
design principles were. And then
we started leveraging them explicitly
and purposefully, but you don't
really have to go at
it from solid. It's great
to know what they mean,
but if you just write
these little examples of simplicity
out, you'll go a long
way. And that is what
test driven development is. Yeah.
Is that, why is the
idea that you would write
down an example, say if
this is how I want
it to behave, this is
how I want it to,
to look, see how easy
it ought to be. That
is that why behavior is
that behavior driven development? I'm
saying that it should behave
like this. It should be
this simple, it should be
this basic, I think behavior
driven development. And I can't
speak for Dan North. It'd
be valuable to, you know,
to, to, to hit up
that behavior driven development is
called behavior driven development. But
there is a notion in,
in, in specification and by
specification, I mean test, which
is sort of specifications, terminology
and BDD for test, we
are really interested in developer
testing and unit testing and
testing behaviors because it's, you
know, it, the value of
the, of, of the system
is, is the things that
it does. So we are,
you know, doing our analysis
from the perspective of behaviors,
we're doing our design from
the perspective of behaviors, kind
of like, you know, this
entity pattern or entity objects,
they, we called them. We
tend to call them behavioral
objects. They're really there to
represent clusters of behavior. Bob
Martin talked about this in,
in, in his conversation with
you about single responsibility principle.
He's talking about creating smaller
objects that have more smaller
sets of behavior that they
represent. I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
Right. I got distracted. Yes.
They have less groups of
behaviors. It's, they're not just
sort of objects named person
manager where we hang every
concept of person off of
this object. You know, that
kind of idea of a
person manager classes is really
a procedural programming pattern. It's
the person function library. So
BDD helps us to focus
our minds on this essential
aspect of software, which is
the logic. And so did
test driven development as well.
It was just sort of,
it's just really hard to
talk about what test driven
development is because people keep
getting really snagged and hung
up on this word test.
Yeah. I think it is
a little bit more us,
but what I feel that
you've, you've definitely enlightened me
and I feel more like
I'm kind of circling the
drain here and I think
I'm heading in the right
direction. I think that I,
I can use this information
to get a better understanding
about, you know, test smells
about when a test doesn't,
when a test doesn't feel
right, and the test smell
inevitably points to a design
smell. And then underneath that,
I may or may not
find, find code smells. But
if my tests aren't, if
there isn't joy in my
test, if I'm doing lots
of setup, if I'm, if,
if my tests are full
of friction and pain and
I don't enjoy riding them,
then there's something wrong with
my design. And that kind
of is regardless of what
we call this thing called
TDD or BDD, that that
is the kind of the
essence of test driven development
to, to unearth those things
and to discover that there's
not, that there's a problem
with my test, but there's
a problem with my coat.
My, my design is not
sufficient. If it can't be
used effortlessly And above and
beyond that, this notion of,
you know, effortless setup and
effortless exercise, the side effects
of this, like I said,
are the solid principles and
the solid principles, just aren't
about testability. We use the
word testability or easy testability
to describe it, but really
the ability to do the
things with software that we
want to leverage it in
more meaningful ways comes out
of these principles, the ability
to decouple software and distribute
them, distribute objects in service
oriented architectures, you know, the
ability to, to use plugins,
to do provider pattern kind
of stuff. The ability to
scale and parallel lies also
comes out of these in
object oriented systems also comes
out of these all comes
out of these principles. Once
you get at this sort
of, you know, quality of
design, all of the other
things that we need from
design that we require from
design become much more readily
available as a side effect.
So it's, it's, we're going
to focus on through writing
sample code that shows how
easy it is to set
up and learn from an
object. And the benefit from
that, isn't just testing it's
high quality design. And even
if you don't know how
to do high quality design
and everybody who's done test
driven development for a long
time will say the same
thing. Even if you don't
know what high quality design
is. If you start with
simplicity and expectations and demands
for simplicity, you're going to
end up at high quality
design or at least higher
quality design. And the more
you do it, the more
this will just become automatic.
And it's amazing what doors
to knowledge about design. This
practice opens up. And like
I said, no one has
to start memorizing the esoteric
terms and their meaning. And
frankly, those terms, and those
meetings are going to make
a whole lot more sense
when you've written some code
that demonstrates it. So what
are some resources or some
books or preferred ways that
people can dig into this?
That's some actions that they
can take after listening to
this podcast. Are there a
particular Bible that you think
people should read? I think
there's a mantra that we
can start with. If we
just get people to say,
test driven development is designed.
I guess that's a good
place to start after that.
There's so many, there's so
many resources about test-driven the
moment, but most of them
I think are written for
people who are already into
test driven development. Unfortunately, the
lure and the love, and,
you know, the almost addiction
to two words and terminology
of test driven development and,
and object oriented design immediately
create an echo chamber. You
know, I think, I think
seeing fancy words produces serotonin
in the programmers brain and
I'm definitely guilty of this,
but the problem is that
it, that it makes it
harder for people who don't
know these terms. So most
of the writing, most of
the really good writing is
written in for an audience
that is already somewhat initiated.
The, the really the book
that made it, made it
really turn on for me
was James new Kirk's book
and ms. Press, he might
be screaming, you know, at
his, at his iPod right
now, but that his book
test driven development with microsoft.net
or in Microsoft on it
is a pretty good set
of exercises to try to
get used to, to.net. And
I think, you know, Jim
said recently that, you know,
somebody needs to rewrite that
book and it's, it's, it's
a fairly, you know, I
guess from a technology perspective,
a timeline perspective, it's a
fairly aged book, but it's
the only book I've seen
for.net programmers to start fresh.
Aside from that, there's lots
of podcasts and there's lots
of blogs on Lowe's techies
on code better, and, and
sites like that. But try
to explain to us are
in development, but it's very,
very difficult to explain something
that has to be experienced.
All right. Well, thank you
very much, Scott Delware for
sitting down with me and
talking about test driven development.
And you remember now that
test driven development is designed.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week.